docs/development/TESTING.md, before:

# Testing

This repo uses Vitest + TypeScript type checks.

## Core commands

```bash
npm run typecheck
npm test
npm run build
npm run verify
```

`npm run verify` is the pre-release gate.

It now includes Node ESM regression checks (source + dist import specifiers) and a built CLI smoke run.

Package smoke validation:

```bash
TARBALL="$(npm pack --silent)"
test -f "${TARBALL}"
npx --yes --package "./${TARBALL}" opencode-codex-auth --help
```

## Focused test runs

```bash
npx vitest run test/storage.test.ts
npx vitest run test/config.test.ts
npx vitest run test/installer-cli.test.ts
npx vitest run test/codex-prompts-cache.test.ts
npx vitest run test/remote-cache-fetch.test.ts
npx vitest run test/cache-io.test.ts
npx vitest run test/codex-native-oauth-callback-flow.test.ts
npx vitest run test/acquire-auth-locking.test.ts
npx vitest run test/codex-native-collaboration.test.ts
npx vitest run test/prompt-cache-key.test.ts
npx vitest run test/codex-native-oauth-debug-gating.test.ts
npx vitest run test/request-snapshots.test.ts
```

## Test design expectations

- Keep tests deterministic and offline.
- Use temp directories for filesystem tests.
- Never depend on real user home auth files in unit tests.
- Use fixtures in `test/fixtures/` when applicable.

## Areas with strong coverage

- storage migration/locking/atomic writes
- account rotation strategies + cooldown semantics
- auth menu actions and wiring
- config parsing and precedence
- model catalog shaping
- request snapshot redaction paths

## Manual smoke test checklist

Before production release, validate in a live OpenCode session:

1. login flow
2. add multiple accounts
3. quota rendering (`5h`, `Weekly`, `Credits`)
4. enable/disable/delete flows
5. one real request with OpenAI model
6. no malformed tool-call output

## Optional in-vivo probes

Some probes intentionally read real OpenCode auth state from the default auth path and will make live network calls.

Enable in-vivo tests by setting:

- `CODEX_IN_VIVO=1`

Example:

```bash
CODEX_IN_VIVO=1 npx vitest run test/codex-quota-in-vivo.test.ts
```

Commit message:

test: isolate HOME/XDG paths for vitest runs
Adds a global vitest setup that sandboxs HOME/XDG/temp dirs per test run so session-affinity and storage tests cannot write into developer local config/cache paths.

docs/development/TESTING.md, after:

# Testing

This repo uses Vitest + TypeScript type checks.

## Core commands

```bash
npm run typecheck
npm test
npm run build
npm run verify
```

`npm run verify` is the pre-release gate.

It now includes Node ESM regression checks (source + dist import specifiers) and a built CLI smoke run.

Vitest environment isolation:

- Tests run with isolated `HOME`, `XDG_CONFIG_HOME`, `XDG_DATA_HOME`, and temp directories via `test/setup-env.ts`.
- This prevents test writes from touching the developer's real OpenCode config/cache paths.

Package smoke validation:

```bash
TARBALL="$(npm pack --silent)"
test -f "${TARBALL}"
npx --yes --package "./${TARBALL}" opencode-codex-auth --help
```

## Focused test runs

```bash
npx vitest run test/storage.test.ts
npx vitest run test/config.test.ts
npx vitest run test/installer-cli.test.ts
npx vitest run test/codex-prompts-cache.test.ts
npx vitest run test/remote-cache-fetch.test.ts
npx vitest run test/cache-io.test.ts
npx vitest run test/codex-native-oauth-callback-flow.test.ts
npx vitest run test/acquire-auth-locking.test.ts
npx vitest run test/codex-native-collaboration.test.ts
npx vitest run test/prompt-cache-key.test.ts
npx vitest run test/codex-native-oauth-debug-gating.test.ts
npx vitest run test/request-snapshots.test.ts
```

## Test design expectations

- Keep tests deterministic and offline.
- Use temp directories for filesystem tests.
- Never depend on real user home auth files in unit tests.
- Use fixtures in `test/fixtures/` when applicable.

## Areas with strong coverage

- storage migration/locking/atomic writes
- account rotation strategies + cooldown semantics
- auth menu actions and wiring
- config parsing and precedence
- model catalog shaping
- request snapshot redaction paths

## Manual smoke test checklist

Before production release, validate in a live OpenCode session:

1. login flow
2. add multiple accounts
3. quota rendering (`5h`, `Weekly`, `Credits`)
4. enable/disable/delete flows
5. one real request with OpenAI model
6. no malformed tool-call output

## Optional in-vivo probes

Some probes intentionally read real OpenCode auth state from the default auth path and will make live network calls.

Enable in-vivo tests by setting:

- `CODEX_IN_VIVO=1`

Example:

```bash
CODEX_IN_VIVO=1 npx vitest run test/codex-quota-in-vivo.test.ts
```
